Hi guys we're now going to cover Amazon MQ Amazon MQ is another message broking service.
And in this case it uses Apache active MQ which is open source software.
So the key use case is going to be for where companies have applications on premises that are using
Apache active MQ and they want to migrate their applications into the cloud and they don't want to
reengineer their message broking service.
You see questions like that in the exam Amazon MQ is likely to be the solution for solutions that
are being developed developed within the AWS cloud.
There's still a lot of advantages to using SQS and one of them is going to be that SQS is priced
based on the amount of requests and the data transfer charges.
So it's very different to the pricing model that you can see here with Amazon
MQ Which is using instance sizes so you're actually provisioning instances on EC2.
So this is a service that requires instances whereas SQS is more of a service a service where you're
paying just for the resources used.
So very different pricing model.
But again those use cases around existing applications using Apache active MQ are going to be the
ones which you see on the exam that might point you towards using Amazon
MQ You can click on the learn more link here and it gives you a bit more information about the pricing
and an overview and so on.
So we're not going to go into a huge amount of detail detail on MQ.
I don't think it's going to come up a lot.
I know that you're going to be expected to know details of the architecture of Amazon MQ but let's just
click on the Get Started link and see what we've got here so you can choose to select a single broker
or an active standby broker.
Let's just choose a single instance broker and then you get an option to use some sample blueprints
let's just choose the one that says mesh network of single instance brokers and click next.
So now you get to call this something so let's just call it my mesh network you get to choose your instance
size let's just choose the T2 micro and then you can put in a use a it's just called MQ user and I'm
going to put in a password and then we can just click on deploy and we now get a message telling us
that the brokers are being created and a cloud formation stack is being created.
So I can head over to cloud formation and let's just have a look at what's going on so we can see my
mesh network is being created and let's head over to resources and see what's being created for us and
we'll see a security group is being created.
We've got three brokers being created and they're in progress.
So it's been quite a few minutes it took 15-20 minutes to set this all up looks like it's pretty much
complete.
So let's head over to the Amazon MQ console and we can see that we have all three message brokers running.
Now they did come up before and then went down for a reboot and that took another several minutes.
But everything appears to be available now.
And if you click on the message broker you can see some important information and some of that is the
end point so you can see the four different types or the five different types of endpoints available
here and you can just scroll down and see the network connectors.
You can edit the configuration and change the broker engine and change the configuration and enable
cloudwatch logs and you can choose whether minor version updates are automatically installed.
So that's really all I wanted to show you just a very brief overview just to show you how you set it
up and get you to understand how this is different from SQS.
So clearly we now have three EC2 instances running to create this configuration whereas with SQS
you're just going to pay for the messages that are put in the queue and in some cases the data transfer.
So definitely very similar to rescue us in many ways.
But you're you're going to use them in different scenarios.
So just remember SQS for cloud native applications that are built in AWS whereas your Amazon MQ
could be for you existing on premises or applications that you're moving from some other cloud. Now to
close all this down
we can simply go into our stack and choose Delete and it's going to delete the stack for us if you have
created this just make sure you go back in and ensure that your resources at the least.
Because these may or may not being free,  actually I believe they are in free tier because we chose
the T2 micro instance.
But again you got three instances running so you want to make sure you got everything shut down.